Let's see... uh...
What is Pandas-
Um, Pandas, with all lowercase and parallel mode, um, is a Python module.
enables us to make an abstraction of a table called DataFrame.
Okay, here's how it differs with NumPy.
NumPy allows you to create a metrics,
of any dimension.
So, if you still remember, um, those, um, again, college mathematics, um, when you have, like,
a flat box with only single values. It's called a factor, right- When it has...
Um, two dimensions, it called a matrix. And you can also have metrics with 3 dimensions, four dimensions, and n dimensions.
Right- For data analyzes, you usually work with, uh, with two dimensions, and that's where Pandas can be.
Very useful. It creates the abstraction for those.
A column is called a series in Pandas, and a table...
Uh, which has two dimensions.
It's called a data frame.
And you can programmatically manipulate these objects.
So, um, so you can, for example, import a file from Excel spreadsheets.
You can manipulate the values directly from Python.
Um, and then... and then just, uh, I don't know, save it to another Excel file or anything.
Right- The typical pipeline is similar to that.
If you have multiple files, for example,
We can load each of them, manipulate them, merge them into a single data frame.
and analyze the merged data frame.
And maybe save the emergency data frame into another file.
And there's a pandas code example.
Um, but this example is not gonna run, because the data.csv...
doesn't exist.
Um, but let's... let's do this hypothetically. Hypothetically, if you have
a data frame.
that has, um, an H column,
and a status column.
Right- If you have, like, a table, let's just say a table,
You have H, you have status,
And then, um, you store it in a CSV file, comma-separated value. You can read
read that file in Pandas.
And you can... you can get...
a column, or in this case, a series,
Um, with this selector.
So, that is the...
the variable name, or in this case, the object name.
And then followed by square brackets.
And then the... inside that square bracket, it's the column name.
Or you can... you can do... mhm.
Right.
One quick question, pandas assumes that the first row are the headers
Um, well...
No, because, uh...
Well, you... it has a...
Um, it has a parameter to allow you to set that.
An option
By default, it does that, but you can change that.
And if you want to learn more about that, um...
You can... well, the best way is really to...
to, uh, to use AI agents, something like this.
Uh...
how to load...
CSV file in Pandas.
Uh, with...
Specific. Huh.
Yeah.
Uh, number, like this.
And, um, yeah, so you can, uh...
you see here, it sets the fourth...
fourth row as a header.
Right-
Okay.
Okay, because it says, like, for example, it was using the H there, and I saw that, for example, for example, in PySpark, you can say
hither true, for example, and it will
assume that the first row will have at least of heaters
In which you can... yeah, it will say H in one of those columns, of those commas separated values that are in the first row, for example
Yeah, um, uh...
There are small variants, but I don't think...
Um...
Yeah, uh, at least in... in...
Pandas, pandas, in this variant of Pandas, you can set the...
the number
off-road instead of true or false.
Okay, great. Good. Thanks.
In olden times, we actually have to go through the documentation,
And the API references to find this. So it's pretty nice that you have all this.
Yeah.
It's even nicer that you can let it to work for you.
Right. And by the way, a very unrelated, but I just read on news that...
let's say that 80% of cloud code was written by AI agent.
Okay, all right, anyway...
Um...
Yeah, um, you can... you can perform...
um, complex selections.
with, uh, with Pandas, too.
Like, in this case, if you want to...
choose... if you want to get rows where the age is lower than 11,
Um, you can... you can type it like so.
Okay- And create a selection.
And so, basically what it does here is that, uh,
it gives you the indexes, and you can use those indexes
A filter
We lost you.
Um,
Okay, it might be better to have an example of this.
Um, let's see what we can use.
It's actually good that we have...
We have used this notebook.
Because this notebook...
It has...
Um, it has these datasets that we can use directly.
Um, I'll just use a code that's already written.
So if you... if you do this...
So, notice here that, um, we got the database.
Um, well, the data sets.
And we can do this.
Right- Or rather, let's just use open, because it's easier.
Use numeric values.
Um, but we can also do...
What if we want to get the open price of...
higher than... 100.
It gives you, um...
the indexes.
And the... the...
the mask, so-called a mask.
Um, for each of those indexes.
Right- Then you can use that mask.
Like this.
It's gonna give you only the data where...
Um, the values are larger than...
the value open is larger than 100.
In this case. Make sense-
Yep.
Right.
And you can also set, um...
the value of other columns.
Uh, and combine that with a selection. This is something that you often want to do, right-
Let's say if you want to set, um, all of the rows where the age is lower than 11, set the status to children.
And what can we do here-
Um, so we can...
can, for example, create another
column.
like this.
This is so wrong.
But, uh, for the... for the sake of...
Example, let's just do this.
It's, like, price larger than 100 is not always expensive.
Something like this, and if you print out PDF,
It's going to go through for all of the data where
Where the open price is larger than 100.
Okay-
Okay. There's no need to memorize these pandas functions, uh, you already know this. Simply search, how do I...